Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about response rate and I'm going to show you some real examples
of how different contractors under different scenarios respond.
Now the response rate is incredibly important if I haven't already made that point before but I'm going
to show you what kind of an impact it has on your project.
I'm going to show you some examples where some people respond very quickly and some don't.
It's really important to understand this and know what to look for know what to ignore.
OK.
Let's go to screencast.
All right welcome back to the course so in this lecture I want to talk just a little bit about how you
can monitor a response rate and use that as one of your criteria for determining who is a good freelancer
What's a good proposal.
So typically one of the things I suggest doing is a best practice is immediately after you list your
post.
Your job will start to get bids.
And this is why I suggested previously in the course that you only list these job postings when you
know you're going to a block of time to actually respond to them because obviously your response rate
is very important.
But it's really important because you can sniff out who exactly is away from the keyboard all the time.
And what is your relationship going forward.
Probably going to be like.
So after you've gone through your initial proposals and using the techniques that we covered a little
bit in the last lecture you're going to look for relevancy.
You're going to look for message fatigue.
You're going to look for poorly constructed sentences or sections I just don't make a ton of sense to
you.
One thing I'd like to do is pretty much immediately once someone has pass the sniff test I like to send
them a message and that message might be completely redundant.
It might just be me asking a question that I don't think was answered in their proposal.
It might be something as simple as where are you located.
What do you think of the project.
Hey thanks for your message.
Anything at all.
Basically what I'm doing is I'm testing to see what exactly is their response rate going to be.
What you'll find often is that if someone is mass bidding and they're doing mass proposals they might
not respond very quickly and you can kind of catch them because they maybe they posted 50 in an hour
and they're not expecting you to respond very quickly and you can obviously tell that because they're
trying to go for a volume play.
They're focusing on getting as many bids out as possible.
So here's an example of someone that I just immediately messaged right off the bat.
So right off the bat I just had to ask them because previously we've talked to there's a mismatch between
our language skills and where the list.
So I wanted to ask for clarification and as you can tell I asked it for 11 and they responded 4:49 That's
pretty good I responded quite literally I think 10 minutes within from the point at which they submitted
the bid so them being able to respond in 30 minutes.
That's good.
Not fantastic but that does show that they actually are paying attention and they're not mass bidding
that's typically good.
So that would be a plus for this person although you'll notice up here is that I asked a question they
responded That's great I responded and then they never responded again.
So maybe they lost interest maybe they got busy.
Whatever it doesn't really matter.
The more conversation you have with them you give them more opportunities to drop out.
And that's a good thing because if they're willing to drop out that's not something you want to work
with.
So give an example of where the response rate test failed quite miserably.
This this proposal from x x x x x x x.
If he couldn't tell how professional that was to begin with what I did is I just immediately message
them.
So I just immediately message them as you can see four or three I think their bid came out came in at
four o'clock so literally two minutes later I message them and I just pointed out the fact that they
didn't divide their their estimate by the sections like I'd asked.
And the second thing was they never answered whether or not they'd work for Twilio which is something
I specifically asked for.
So as you can see then their response came in seven hours later which is kind of crazy considering that
they're probably online currently and bidding.
It's possible that they were asleep or something like that but if they just bid and then you immediately
respond and they don't respond back.
That's just it's very unlikely it's the case that they sent you a message and as soon as they hit enter
then their head hit a pillow and they fell asleep.
So that's a very bad sign.
And then you notice that it almost right off the bat.
They don't actually answer any of the question.
They just want immediately to get me off off the Elance system and onto Skype and that was something
that I just did not want to do.
So that's an easy way of testing responsiveness.
You don't want a freelancer who's going to disappear.
So what you can do from a very quick test is as if proposals start rolling in.
Use the previous criteria to pick high quality ones you can ignore the ones that clearly score poorly
on the the kind of criteria we established in the last lecture.
Send them a message literally anything.
All you're doing is seeing how quickly they respond.
I'll show you the person who we ended up working with.
And you can see and as you can guess they responded very quickly which is exactly what we want right.
We want to make sure that their response at their computer.
So quite literally at 1:41 a.m. that's I think a bit around 130.
I posted a message.
They responded pretty much within 30 minutes 34 minutes which is great considering that it's 2:00 in
the morning where they're sending it.
So that would be an example of that.
Anything under 30 minutes is great within an hour.
Still quite good if it's several hours probably a bad indication so use the response rate technique
to very quickly kind of poke them see how quickly they respond.
It's very helpful if you have five people that have passed your original test and you sent a response
rate to a response rate test all five of them maybe three fail.
And so now you're down to two.
The whole idea behind this is we're trying to find the best freelancer and the best person to do your
job.
So that's usually a very good technique to figure out how actually committed they are to what they're
bidding on and how committed they are to getting you as a client.
So all right I'll see the next lecture.